README.md, before:

# ES140X
## Introduction to Engineering
Fall 2020

**Instructors**<br/>
Dr. Clare M<sup>c</sup>Cabe  
Email: c.mccabe@vanderbilt.edu   
Dr. Kane Jennings  
Email: kane.g.jennings@vanderbilt.edu


**TA**<br/> 
Cal Craven  
Email: nicholas.c.craven@vanderbilt.edu

**Office Hours** <br/> 
Monday and Friday 11 - 12 and by appointment  
https://vanderbilt.zoom.us/j/5519036202


## Set up instructions

To effectively participate in this class effectively, students will need to create a GitHub account 
and set up an Anaconda environment in their computer. The detailed instructions for those 
can be found [here](instructions).


## Lectures

Below is the tentative schedule with link to the Zoom classroom 
(**refresh this page to view the latest changes**). The schedule will be updated when
needed and significant changes will be announced in class.

|                       | Date | Lecture | HW | HW Due | Zoom classroom |
| :--------------- |:-------:|:----------:|:------:|:-----------:|:--------------------|
| **Week 1**     |         |**Introduction**|         |               |                            |
| Class 1          | 8/24 | Jupyter notebook and Python | HW1 |               |                            |
| Class 2          | 8/26 | Setup your machine |         |               |                            |
| Class 3          | 8/28 | Python Practices | HW2 | HW1 |                           |
| **Week 2**     |         | **In-person classes** |         |               |                            |
| Class 4          | 8/31 |              |         |               |                            |
| Class 5         | 9/02 |              |         |               |                            |
| Class 6          | 9/04 |              |         |               |                            |
| **Week 3**     |         | **Thermodynamics** |         |               |                            |
| Class 7          | 9/07 | Ideal gas law  |         |               |                            |
| Class 8          | 9/09 | Non-ideal gases|         |               |                            |
| Class 9          | 9/11 | Solids, liquids, and gases |         |               |                            |
| **Week 4**     |         | **In-person classes** |         |               |                            |
| Class 10         | 9/14 |              |         |               |                            |
| Class 11         | 9/16 |              |         |               |                            |
| Class 12         | 9/18 |              |         |               |                            |
| **Week 5**     |         | **Applications** |         |               |                            |
| Class 13         | 9/21 | Polymers |         |               |                            |
| Class 14         | 9/23 | Phase Separation and Self Assembly|         |               |                            |
| Class 15         | 9/24 | Surfactants |         |               |                            |


## Additional Resources  
See these additonal links for more in depth explanations of important topics:  
- **Working with your terminal**: https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/  
- **Introduction to Python**:         https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-inflammation/  
- **Introduction to Github**:          http://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/

Commit message:

Update schedule and new instruction

README.md, after:

# ES140X
## Introduction to Engineering
Fall 2020

**Instructors**<br/>
Dr. Clare M<sup>c</sup>Cabe  
Email: c.mccabe@vanderbilt.edu   
Dr. Kane Jennings  
Email: kane.g.jennings@vanderbilt.edu


**TA**<br/> 
Cal Craven  
Email: nicholas.c.craven@vanderbilt.edu

**Office Hours** <br/> 
Monday and Friday 11 - 12 and by appointment  
https://vanderbilt.zoom.us/j/5519036202


## Set up instructions

To effectively participate in this class effectively, students will need to create a GitHub account 
and set up an Anaconda environment in their computer. The detailed instructions for those 
can be found [here](instructions). 
We strongly encourage student to create a GitHub account following this [instruction](instructions/README.md#create-your-github-account) and join the GitHub classroom following this [link](link).

## Lectures

Below is the tentative schedule with link to the Zoom classroom 
(**refresh this page to view the latest changes**). The schedule will be updated when
needed and significant changes will be announced in class.

|                       | Date | Lecture | HW | HW Due | Zoom classroom |
| :--------------- |:-------:|:----------:|:------:|:-----------:|:--------------------|
| **Week 1**     |         |**Introduction**|         |               |                            |
| Class 1          | 8/24 | Jupyter notebook and Python | HW1 |               |                            |
| Class 2          | 8/26 | Setup your machine |         |               |                            |
| Class 3          | 8/28 | Python practices | HW2 | HW1 |                           |
| **Week 2**     |         | **In-person classes** |         |               |                            |
| Class 4          | 8/31 |              |         |               |                            |
| Class 5         | 9/02 |              |         |               |                            |
| Class 6          | 9/04 |              |         |               |                            |
| **Week 3**     |         | **Intro to Thermodynamics** |         |               |                            |
| Class 7          | 9/07 | Ideal gas law  |         |               |                            |
| Class 8          | 9/09 | Non-ideal gases|         |               |                            |
| Class 9          | 9/11 | Solids, liquids, and gases |         |               |                            |
| **Week 4**     |         | **Intro to Reaction Engineering** |         |               |                            |
| Class 10         | 9/14 | Kinetics |         |               |                            |
| Class 11         | 9/16 | Reaction rates and equilibria |         |               |                            |
| Class 12         | 9/18 | Mass and energy transport |         |               |                            |
| **Week 5**     |         | **Applications** |         |               |                            |
| Class 13         | 9/21 | Polymers |         |               |                            |
| Class 14         | 9/23 | Phase Separation and Self Assembly|         |               |                            |

## Additional Resources  
See these additonal links for more in depth explanations of important topics:  
- **Working with your terminal**: https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/  
- **Introduction to Python**:         https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-inflammation/  
- **Introduction to Github**:          http://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/
